Article: guide configuring maintenance windows (#20974)
fleetdm/fleet: articles/configuring-maintenance-windows-in-fleet.md

The description and resolution fields can be AI-generated based on the SQL on the policy.

The admin may press **Autofill** one time to regenerate or edit the text manually. Learn more about [Fleet’s AI-assisted policy descriptions and resolutions](https://fleetdm.com/guides/fleet-ai-assisted-policy-descriptions-and-resolutions).

These fields will appear in the details of the scheduled event.

### Rescheduling the maintenance window (Host owner/user)

* **Rescheduling a maintenance window**: Users can reschedule their maintenance window by moving it on their calendar. Fleet will respect the new schedule and will run the maintenance webhook at the new time.
* **Rescheduled to the past**: If the user reschedules the event to a time before the current time, the Fleet server will reschedule it to the day after the original date.
* **Deleted maintenance window**: If the user deletes an event, the Fleet server reschedules it to the day after the original date. If it is deleted again, it will be rescheduled for the following day.

> > The Fleet server handles monitoring the user’s calendar event in real time. Changes to the scheduled event will typically be monitored and addressed within 30 seconds. However, to save load on the Google calendar, only the next week is monitored. In the case of the event being rescheduled to more than a week from the present time, it will still be addressed within 30 minutes rather than in real-time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> The Fleet server handles monitoring the user’s calendar event in real time. For example, if the end user deletes the calendar event it will be rescheduled within 30 seconds. However, to save load on the Google calendar, only the next week is monitored. In the case of the event being rescheduled to more than a week from the present time, it will still be addressed within 30 minutes rather than in real-time.
```

I think providing the "end user deletes calendar" example here would be helpful.

Leveraging Fleet’s integration with Google Calendar and webhooks, you can streamline the process of addressing policy failures, reducing manual oversight, and minimizing disruptions to your users' workflows. Whether it's updating critical software, ensuring security measures like disk encryption, or maintaining compliance with organizational policies, this feature provides a powerful tool to maintain the health and security of your infrastructure.

By automating these tasks, you can focus on more strategic initiatives, confident that Fleet is helping to keep your systems secure and your users satisfied. For more detailed insights into how this feature works or to explore additional customization options, refer to the additional resources provided.

Implementing scheduled mitigations not only enhances operational efficiency but also contributes to a proactive security posture, helping your organization stay ahead of potential risks.

<meta name="articleTitle" value="Configuring maintenance windows in Fleet">

> <meta name="authorFullName" value="Sharon Katz">

Reviewer 2: Please add your name JD.

When a policy fails, it may indicate a potential security risk or non-compliance that requires attention. With this new feature, you can automate the mitigation of such failures by scheduling maintenance during a designated time window. For instance, if a `brew` update is required, administrators can schedule a time with the host's user to run an update script via a webhook. This webhook can be integrated with a low-code or no-code solution to streamline the process.

Some of these policies may be very important, and an admin might decide to act promptly upon a failure to mitigate the issue on the affected hosts. This approach ensures that maintenance activities are performed at a convenient time for the user, minimizing disruptions to their workflow. For more context on the importance and functionality of maintenance windows, refer to our blog post: [Fleet in your calendar: introducing maintenance windows](https://fleetdm.com/announcements/fleet-in-your-calendar-introducing-maintenance-windows).

## How does it work?

> * When a specified policy fails, a predefined mitigation webhook is triggered. 

Reviewer 2: I may be missing something here, but the Webhook is called when the event time arrives. (As in next line)
Did you refer to something else?

Reviewer 3: yes, when specified policy fails a new event is created during calendar cron run (every 5 mins)

* The maintenance window is scheduled for next Tuesday in an available slot between 9 am and 5 pm local time.
* The event will have a description of why it is necessary and what will be done.
* At the time of the event, a payload will be prepared by the Fleet server with information about the host and the failure that then calls the predefined webhook.
* The webhook will do its operation to mitigate the problem using the Fleet API, MDM, or other tools.

## Prerequisites

* A dedicated Google Workspace service account. (Office 365 is coming soon.)
* A service or low-code/no-code webhook provider. (We use Tines in this example.)
* Fleet premium. 
* Admin permissions for all three services above.

## Step-by-Step Instructions

### One-time configuration of your Google Calendar account.

Detailed instructions for configuring your Google Calendar account, along with pre-formatted API keys, are provided within Fleet.

To access these steps, click the top right **User logo** > **Settings** page > **Integrations** tab > **Calendars** on the left-hand menu.

Follow the instructions found on this page.

> > Please note that the Fleet server will use APIs provided by Google Calendar. Some additional load should be expected on the server. Make sure to have enough quota. (This can be adjusted later per need)

Reviewer 3: I would advise to set an alert when API load hits quota.

Video: [How to configure the Google Calendar API in Fleet](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CpbzJNrM2LY). (2m)

> ### Creating a webhook

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Handling Fleet's webhook
```

An external webhook mechanism should be defined to be run as the mitigation plan for failing policies on hosts.

Please refer to the [Building webhook flows with Fleet and Tines](https://fleetdm.com/guides/building-webhook-flows-with-fleet-and-tines) guide to learn more about building webhooks using Tines.

> At the end of this operation, you should have a webhook to be used by the Fleet server.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
At the end of this operation, you should have a webhook handler to be used with the Fleet server.
```

### Configuring a Policy to run the Webhook if failing (Admin)

1. On your Fleet UI, go to the **Policies** tab.
2. On the top left dropdown, select a team if needed.
3. On the top right, click **Manage automations** → **Calendar events**.
4. On the top left corner of the newly opened modal, click **Enable**.

> 5. Paste the webhook you have in the box named: **Resolution webhook URL**

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
5. Paste the webhook URL you have in the box named: **Resolution webhook URL**
```

6. Select one or more desired policies (click the checkbox next to it)

Video: [Setting a webhook for failing policies in Fleet](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=evMB6zC8jso). (3m)

### Which users will have an event set for them?

If a policy on a host belonging to a Google Calendar user fails, an event will be set on their calendar next Tuesday between 9 a.m. and 5 p.m. local time.

If more than one host has the same user, the event will only be set for one of the hosts. Once this host has been remedied, another event will be scheduled for the next of the user’s hosts, and so forth.

If more than one user is set for a specific host, the event will be set for one of the users.

### What details will be presented in the calendar event?

When adding a policy (**Policies** tab > Top right corner **Add policy** > **create the policy** > Press **Save**), a modal will open with the policy details like this:

![Save policy dialog with Antivirus healthy for Linux with example AI-generated description and resolution.](../website/assets/images/articles/configuring-maintenance-windows-in-fleet-651x782@2x.png "Save policy dialog")

> The description and resolution fields will be AI-generated based on the SQL on the policy.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The description and resolution fields can be AI-generated based on the SQL on the policy.
```

> The admin may press **Autofill** again to regenerate or edit the text manually. Learn more about [Fleet’s AI-assisted policy descriptions and resolutions](https://fleetdm.com/guides/fleet-ai-assisted-policy-descriptions-and-resolutions).

Reviewer 3: You can't press **Autofill** twice AFAIK

Reviewer 2: Ahhh, maybe we discussed this as a future thingy ?

Reviewer 2: @spokanemac, this leaves only the manual edit. Sorry.

Author: Confirmed, you can only press once; once saved, it is only editable.

This has been updated to read: "The admin may press **Autofill** one time to regenerate or edit the text manually."

* **Rescheduled to the past**: If the user reschedules the event to a time before the current time, the Fleet server will reschedule it to the day after the original date.
* **Deleted maintenance window**: If the user deletes an event, the Fleet server reschedules it to the day after the original date. If it is deleted again, it will be rescheduled for the following day.

> The Fleet server handles monitoring the user’s calendar event in real time. Changes to the scheduled event will typically be monitored and addressed within 30 seconds. However, to save load on the Google calendar, only the next week is monitored. In the case of the event being rescheduled to more than a week from the present time, it will still be addressed within 30 minutes rather than in real-time.

## Additional Information

* Video: [How maintenance windows work under the hood](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ra47xZwSitQ). (~4m)
* Video: [Detailed demo of this feature](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=d4TElmLD1M8). (~20m)

> ## Conclusion

Reviewer 2: I just had to write that this is fantastic writing!!!

Author: Thank you. ☺️

Leveraging Fleet’s integration with Google Calendar and webhooks, you can streamline the process of addressing policy failures, reducing manual oversight, and minimizing disruptions to your users' workflows. Whether it's updating critical software, ensuring security measures like disk encryption, or maintaining compliance with organizational policies, this feature provides a powerful tool to maintain the health and security of your infrastructure.

By automating these tasks, you can focus on more strategic initiatives, confident that Fleet is helping to keep your systems secure and your users satisfied. For more detailed insights into how this feature works or to explore additional customization options, refer to the additional resources provided.

Implementing scheduled mitigations not only enhances operational efficiency but also contributes to a proactive security posture, helping your organization stay ahead of potential risks.

<meta name="articleTitle" value="Configuring maintenance windows in Fleet">

> <meta name="authorFullName" value="Victor Lyuboslavsky">

Reviewer 2: Victor is technical approver.
Sharon and JD Authors.

Author: Sorry Sharon, I'll update the byline.
